New docs (#2417)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/config.rst

Configure CumulusCI
=====================

The ``cumulusci.yml`` file is located in the project root directory.
This is where you define project dependencies, configure new tasks and flows, customize standard tasks and flows for your project, and so much more!

``cumulusci.yml`` Structure
---------------------------

A ``cumulusci.yml`` file contains these top-level sections.

> * ``project``: Contains information pertaining to the project's package information (if any) and GitHub information. This section is largely generated by running ``cci project init``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``project``: Contains information about the project's associated package (if any) and GitHub repository. This section is largely generated by running ``cci project init``.
```

* ``tasks``: Defines the tasks that are available to run in your project. See `task configurations`_ for configuration options in this section.

* ``flows``: Defines the flows that are available to run in your project. See `flow configurations`_ for configuration options in this section.

> * ``sources``: References tasks and flows from another CumulusCI project on GitHub. See :ref:`tasks and flows from a different project` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``sources``: Defines other CumulusCI projects whose tasks and flows you can use in automation. See :ref:`tasks and flows from a different project` for more information.
```

* ``orgs``: Defines the scratch org configurations that are available for your project. See `scratch org configurations`_ for configuration options in this section.

> * ``plans``: Contains any custom plans purposely defined to install your project into a customer org. See :ref:`configuring plans in MetaDeploy <Publish an Install Plan to MetaDeploy>` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``plans``: Contains any custom plans defined to install your project into a customer org. See :ref:`configuring plans in MetaDeploy <Publish an Install Plan to MetaDeploy>` for more information.
```

> Last but not least, :doc:`cumulusci.yml reference <cci_yml_reference>` has a complete list of values that can be used in each section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :doc:`cumulusci.yml reference <cci_yml_reference>` has a complete list of values that can be used in each section.
```

Task Configurations
-------------------

Each task configuration under the ``tasks`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file defines a task that can be run using the ``cci task run`` command, or included in a flow step.

> With a few simple changes to this section, you can configure build automation functionality without ever touching Python code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a few simple changes to this section, you can configure build automation functionality to suite your project's specific needs.
```

Override a Task Option
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you repeatedly specify the same value for an option while running a task, you can configure CumulusCI to use that value as a default value.

> For example: Let's enforce a 90% code coverage requirement for Apex code in your project. The :ref:`run_tests` task, which executes all Apex tests in a target org, can enforce code coverage at a given percentage by passing the ``--required_org_code_coverage_percent`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: Let's enforce a 90% code coverage requirement for Apex code in your project. The ``run_tests`` task, which executes all Apex tests in a target org, can enforce code coverage at a given percentage by passing the ``--required_org_code_coverage_percent`` option.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    run_tests:
        options:
            required_org_code_coverage_percent: 90

> When the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file specifies this option, CumulusCI overrides the default option with a value of ``90``. Whenever this automated task is called, its override value applies unless it's further overridden for a particular flow step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file specifies this option, CumulusCI overrides the default option with a value of ``90``. Whenever this task is executed, its customized options apply, unless it's further configured for a particular flow step.
```

        Default: 90

Add a Custom Task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To define a new task for your project, add the task name under the ``tasks`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

For example, let's create a custom task named ``deploy_reports`` that deploys a set of reports stored in your project's unpackaged metadata located in ``unpackaged/config/reports``.

First, look up the Python class associated with the standard task ``deploy``. From there we see that the ``deploy`` task has a ``class_path`` value of ``cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy``.

Store the task under the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    deploy_reports:
        description: Deploy Reports
        class_path: cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy
        group: projectName
        options:
            path: unpackaged/config/reports

.. tip::

    Be sure to include the value we retrieved for ``class_path``.
    Also, consider adding a common ``group`` attribute to make it easier to see the tasks specific to your project when running ``cci task list``.

Congratulations! You created a new custom task in CumulusCI.

> To write a custom task in Python and make it available to other users in the project, add the task under the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file. (Let's assume that your task's class is named ``MyNewTaskClassName`` and exists in the file ``tasks/task_file.py``.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've built a custom task in Python, you can make it available to the project by adding the task under the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file. (Let's assume that your task's class is named ``MyNewTaskClassName`` and exists in the file ``tasks/task_file.py``.)
```

.. code-block:: yaml

    tasks:
        my_new_task:
            description: Description of the task
            class_path: tasks.task_file.MyNewTaskClassName
            group: projectName

Use Variables for Task Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To reference a specific value within the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file, use the ``$project_config`` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reference a project configuration value within the ``tasks`` section of the ``cumulusci.yml`` file, use the ``$project_config`` variable.
```

For example, NPSP uses a variable for the project's namespace by setting a value of ``$project_config.project__package__namespace``. This variable is then referenced in the project's custom ``deploy_qa_config`` task where it's passed as the value for the ``namespace_inject`` option.

.. note::

    A double underscore (``__``) refers to a subsequent level in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

>     deploy_qa_config:

Reviewer: Not a blocker for release, but we don't use this pattern anymore because namespace injection is inferred.

        description: Deploys additional fields used for QA purposes only
        class_path: cumulusci.tasks.salesforce.Deploy
        group: Salesforce Metadata
        options:
            path: unpackaged/config/qa
            namespace_inject: $project_config.project__package__namespace

In this instance, CumulusCI replaces the variable with the value under project -> package -> namespace in the ``cumulusci.yml`` file.
Here is the ``project`` section of NPSP's ``cumulusci.yml`` file specifying ``npsp`` as the namespace value.

.. code-block:: yaml

    project:
        name: Cumulus
        package:
            name: Cumulus
            name_managed: Nonprofit Success Pack
            namespace: npsp
            api_version: 48.0
            install_class: STG_InstallScript
            uninstall_class: STG_UninstallScript

Flow Configurations
-------------------

> Each flow configuration listed under the ``flows`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file defines a flow that can be run using the ``cci flow run`` command, or included in a flow step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each flow configuration listed under the ``flows`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file defines a flow that can be run using the ``cci flow run`` command, or included as a step in another flow.
```

> With a few simple changes to this section, you can configure build automation functionality without ever touching Python code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a few simple changes to this section, you can configure sophisticated build automation that execute workflows throughout your development lifecycle.
```

Add a Custom Flow
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To define a new flow for your project, add the flow name under the ``flows`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file.
Let's define a new ``greet_and_sleep`` flow:

.. code-block:: yaml

    greet_and_sleep:
        group: projectName
        description: Greets the user and then sleeps for 5 seconds.
        steps:
            1:
                task: command
                options:
                    command: echo 'Hello there!'
            2:
                task: util_sleep

This flow is comprised of two tasks: ``command`` greets the user by echoing a string, and ``util_sleep`` then tells CumulusCI to sleep for five seconds.

> You can reference how flows are defined in the `universal cumulusci.yml <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/blob/master/cumulusci/cumulusci.yml>`_ file.

Reviewer: I'm not sure why we want to reference the standard library here.

            when: project_config.project__source_format == "sfdx" and org_config.scratch
        4) task: uninstall_packaged_incremental
        when: project_config.project__source_format != "sfdx" or not org_config.scratch
    3) flow: config_dev
        1) task: deploy_post
        2) task: update_admin_profile
    4) task: snapshot_changes

Of this flow's four steps, the first three are themselves flows, and the last is a task.

All *non-negative numbers and decimals* are valid as step numbers in a flow.
You can add steps before, between, or after existing flow steps.

The following shows examples of values that you would use for the various scenarios:

* Add a step *before* step 1 by inserting a step number greater than or equal to zero and less than 1 (such as 0, 0.3, or even 0.89334).
* Add a step *between* steps 2 and 3 by inserting a step number greater than 2 or less than 3.
* Add a step *after* all steps in the flow by inserting a step number greater than 4.

You could also customize the ``dev_org`` flow to output an additional log line as its final step:

.. code-block:: yaml

    dev_org:
        steps:
            5:
                task: log

>                     options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                options:
```

>                         line: dev_org flow has completed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    line: dev_org flow has completed
```

Skip a Flow Step
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To skip a flow step, set the task or flow for that step number to the value of ``None``.

For example, to skip the fourth step of the ``dev_org`` flow, insert this code under the ``flows`` section of your ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    dev_org:
        steps:
            4:
                task: None

.. important::

>     The key of ``task`` must be used when skipping a flow step that is a task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The key ``task`` must be used when skipping a flow step that is a task.
```

>     The key of ``flow`` must be used when skipping a flow step that corresponds to a flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The key ``flow`` must be used when skipping a flow step that corresponds to a flow.
```

For example, let's examine the definition of the ``ci_master`` flow from the universal ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

.. code-block::

    ci_master:
        group: Continuous Integration
        description: Deploy the package metadata to the packaging org and prepare for managed package version upload.  Intended for use against main branch commits.
        steps:
            1:
                flow: dependencies
                options:
                    update_dependencies:
                        include_beta: False
            2:
                flow: deploy_packaging
            3:
                flow: config_packaging

This flow specifies that when the subflow ``dependencies`` runs, the ``include_beta`` option passes a value of ``False`` to the ``update_dependencies`` task (which itself executes in the ``dependencies`` subflow).

``when`` Clauses
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Specify a ``when`` clause in a flow step to conditionally run that step.
A ``when`` clause is written in a Pythonic syntax that should evaluate to a boolean (``True`` or ``False``) result.

You can use the ``project_config`` object to reference values from the ``cumulusci.yml`` file

> to help with creation of the ``when`` clauses condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to help with creation of the ``when`` clause's condition.
```

You can use the double underscore (``__``) syntax to indicate values at subsequent levels of
the file. For example, you can reference a projects namespace with ``project_config.project__package__namespace``.

> 

Reviewer: TODO: we really should also mention that `org_config` is available.

in a flow based on the source code format of the project. Below is the configuration
for the standard library flow ``build_feature_test_package``.
The ``update_package_xml`` task will execute *only if*:want the project's source code format is not equal to "``sfdx``".

.. code-block:: yaml
        
    build_feature_test_package:
        group: Release Operations
        description: Create a 2gp managed package version
        steps:
            1:
                task: update_package_xml
                when: project_config.project__source_format != "sfdx"
            2:
                task: create_package_version
                options:
                    package_type: Managed
                    package_name: $project_config.project__package__name Managed Feature Test
                    version_base: latest_github_release
                    version_type: minor
                    skip_validation: True

See `use variables for task options`_ for more information.

Scratch Org Configurations
--------------------------

This section defines the scratch org configurations that are available without explicitly running ``cci org scratch`` to create a new configuration.

> For more information on using scratch orgs with CumulusCI, see the :doc:`Manage Scratch Orgs <scratch_orgs>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on using scratch orgs with CumulusCI, see :doc:`Manage Scratch Orgs <scratch_orgs>`.
```

Override Default Values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note::

    These overrides pertain only to scratch orgs.

You can override these values for your org.

* ``days`` (integer): Number of days for the scratch org to persist.

> * ``namespaced`` (boolean): Is the scratch org a namespaced or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``namespaced`` (boolean): Is the scratch org namespaced or not. Applies only to managed package projects.
```

and you'll see the expected result: both values are available in the project.
(The default of ``opt1`` is not exposed to other projects.)

If you change your project ``cumulusci.yml`` file to also specify a default value for ``opt2``, this new default ``opt2`` value takes precedence over the default ``opt2`` value specified in your global ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Project Configurations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**macOS/Linux:** ``.../path/to/project/cumulusci.yml``

**Windows:** ``...\path\to\project\cumulusci.yml``

This ``cumulusci.yml`` file lives in the project root directory and applies solely to this project. Changes here are committed back to a remote repository so other team members can benefit from the customizations. Configurations in this file apply solely to this project, and take precedence over any configurations specified in the global ``cumulusci.yml`` file, but are overridden by configurations in the local project ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Local Project Configurations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**macOS/Linux:** ``~/.cumulusci/project_name/cumulusci.yml``

**Windows:** ``%homepath%\.cumulusci\project_name\cumulusci.yml``

> Configurations in this ``cumulusci.yml`` file apply solely to the project with the given <project_name>, and take precedence over *all other* configuration scopes except the universal ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer: This statement doesn't make sense. Doesn't the local project configuration override all scopes?

Author: No it doesn't, I've tested this multiple times. If I set the `util_sleep`'s `--seconds` option to 3 in local project cumulusci.yml and 10 in my project's cumulusci.yml, when I run the task it sleeps for three seconds. If I remove the configuration on the local project scope, then it will sleep for 10 seconds.

Author: Actually, I believe this makes sense. This way when you want to configure something over-top of what's in your project's configuration, then yours will take override the project. I made [this diagram](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/invitations/accept/bed65497-0a4e-4e8d-9cb1-bac38352d826) outlining the scopes months back. I think we aren't using it because we determined it would just be another image to maintain over time.

Reviewer 2: That's right, this file is for personal, project-specific overrides.

Reviewer 2: The "except the universal ``cumulusci.yml`` file" part doesn't make sense though.

Author: The "universal `cumulusci.yml` file" is just how we refer to the cumulusci.yml file that ships with CumulusCI. It originated from how the code base refers to this as the `universal_config`. I'm definitely in favor of changing this to something else. We refer to the "standard library" in the new doc set. @davisagli @davidmreed - would you be okay with referring to this file as the "Standard Library" cumulusci.yml file?

Reviewer 2: I know what the universal config is and don't mind using that term in the docs. The problem here is that it says the universal config takes precedence over Local Project Configurations, which is just wrong.

Reviewer: I should have been more specific here, I was pointing to the "except" clause as not making sense. I'm fine with the "universal" terminology, but based on @Br4nd0R's comment above, the "except" clause is incorrect. Or am I completely misreading?

Author: apologies. Yes, the except clause is incorrect. I'll remove it.

The commands ``cci task info`` and ``cci flow info`` display all of the information about a task's or flow's configuration.
They display the information in the standard library alongside any customizations defined in your cumulusci.yml file.

Advanced Configurations
-----------------------

Reference Task Return Values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. attention::

    Current task return values are *not* documented, so finding return values set by a specific
    task (if any) requires you to read the source code for the given task.

It is sometimes useful for return values to be used as input by a subsequent task in the context of a flow.
Tasks can set arbitrary return values on themselves while executing.
These values can then be referenced by subsequent tasks in a flow.

To reference a return value on a previous task use the following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml

    ^^prior_task.return_value

> To discover what's available for ``return_value``, find the source code for an individual task in the `CumulusCI repository<https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To discover what's available for ``return_value``, find the source code for an individual task in the `CumulusCI repository <https://github.com/SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI/>`_.
```

        steps:
            1:
                task: upload_beta
                options:
                    name: Automated beta release
            2:
                task: github_release
                options:
                    version: ^^upload_beta.version_number
            3:
                task: github_release_notes
                ignore_failure: True  # Attempt to generate release notes but don't fail build
                options:
                    link_pr: True
                    publish: True
                    tag: ^^github_release.tag_name
                    include_empty: True
                    version_id: ^^upload_beta.version_id
            4:
                task: github_master_to_feature

This flow shows how subsequent tasks can reference the return values of a prior task. In this case, the ``github_release`` task uses the ``version_numer`` set by the ``upload_beta`` task as an option value with the ``^^upload_beta.version_number`` syntax. Similarly, the ``github_release_notes`` task uses the ``version_id`` set by the ``upload_beta`` task as an option value with the ``^^upload_beta.version_id`` syntax.

> Tasks and Flows from a Different Project

Reviewer: This is a really common use cases, by contrast with things like local project overrides and return values, which are used rarely. Propose promoting it under Flow Configurations.

      npsp:
        github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/NPSP

By default, CumulusCI fetches the most recent release, or the default branch if there are no releases.

.. note::

    This feature requires that the referenced repository be readable (for example,
    it's public, or CumulusCI's GitHub service is configured with the token of a user who has read access to it).

It's also possible to fetch a specific ``tag``...

.. code-block:: yaml

    sources:
      npsp:
        github: https://github.com/SalesforceFoundation/NPSP
        tag: rel/3.163

or a specific ``commit`` or ``branch``.

When the repo is listed under ``sources``, it's possible to run a task from NPSP...

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task run npsp:robot

Or a flow...

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci flow run npsp:install_prod

Or even create a new flow that uses a flow from NPSP:

.. code-block:: yaml

    flows:
        install_npsp:
            steps:
            1:
                flow: npsp:install_prod
            2:
                flow: dev_org

This flow uses NPSP's ``install_prod`` flow to install NPSP as a managed package, and then run this project's own ``dev_org`` flow.

> Implementation of Metadata ETL Tasks

Reviewer: This section does not go here. I suggest either delete it entirely, or move it under the top-level Metadata ETL heading.

Author: I think the content is worth preserving. I'll put it in Metadata ETL.

must define the ``entity``, targeted ``attribute``, and desired ``value`` to set. Example:

  .. code-block:: yaml

   assign_account_compact_layout:
     description: "Assigns the Fancy Compact Layout as Account's Compact Layout."
     class_path: cumulusci.tasks.metadata_etl.UpdateFirstAttributeTextTask
     options:
         managed: False
         namespace_inject: $project_config.project__package__namespace
         entity: CustomObject
         api_names: Account
         attribute: compactLayoutAssignment
         value: "%%%NAMESPACE%%%Fancy_Account_Compact_Layout"

Troubleshoot Configurations
------------------------------

Use ``cci task info <name>`` and ``cci flow info <name>`` to see how a given task or flow behaves with current configurations.

For example, the ``util_sleep`` task has a ``seconds`` option with a default value of 5 seconds.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cci task info util_sleep
    util_sleep

    Description: Sleeps for N seconds

    Class: cumulusci.tasks.util.Sleep

    Command Syntax

        $ cci task run util_sleep

    Options

        -o seconds SECONDS
        Required
        The number of seconds to sleep
        Default: 5

> To change the default value to 30 seconds for all projects on your machine, add the desired value in your `global <Global Configurations>` ``cumulusci.yml`` file.

Reviewer: This link is not linking.

Author: fixed
